# ErgoTree Introduction

This introduction and subsequent pages are taken from the [ErgoTree Specification](https://storage.googleapis.com/ergo-cms-media/docs/ErgoTree.pdf).


> **Abstract:** In this document we describe a typed abstract syntax of the language called ErgoTree which is used to define logical propositions protecting boxes (generalization of coins) in the Ergo blockchain. Serialized ErgoTree expressions are written into UTXO boxes and then evaluated by the transaction verifier. Most of Ergo users don’t use ErgoTree directly since they are developing contracts in higher-level language, such as ErgoScript, which is then compiled to ErgoTree.

> The reference implementation of ErgoTree uses Scala, however alternative implementations can use other languages. This document provides a language neutral specification of ErgoTree for developers of alternative ErgoTree implementations.

The design space of programming languages is very broad ranging from general-purpose languages like C, Java, Python up to specialized languages like SQL, HTML, CSS, etc. To serve as a platform for contractual money, the language for writing contracts on blockchain must have a number of properties.

1. First, **the language and the contract execution environment should be deterministic**. Once created and stored in the blockchain, a smart contract should always behave predictably and deterministically, it should only depend on well-defined data context and nothing else. As long as data context doesn’t change, any execution of the contract should return the same value any time it is executed, on any execution platform using any compliant language implementation. No general purpose programming language is deterministic at least because all of them provide non-deterministic operations. ErgoTree doesn’t have non-deterministic operations.
2. Second, **the language should facilitate spam-resistantance**, i.e. defending against attacks when malicious contracts can overload the network nodes and bring the blockchain down ([Ler17](https://bitslog.wordpress.com/2017/01/08/a-bitcoin-transaction-that-takes-5-hours-to-verify/)). To fullfill this goal transaction model of ErgoTree support predictable cost estimation, the fast calculation of contract execution costs to ensure the evaluation cost of the given transaction is always
within acceptable bounds. In a general (turing-complete) case, such cost prediction is not possible and require special mechanisms such as Gas ([Woo14](http://gavwood.com/Paper.pdf)). Gas limits on transactions indeed protect the network from spam attacks, but at the expence of the users who need to be careful to specifiy the gas limit large enough for the transaction to complete, otherwise the gas used for the failed
transaction will be kept by the miners for their work and the user will not get it back.
1. Third, **the contracts language should be simple yet expressive enough**. It should be possible to efficiently implement wide range of practical applications. For example ErgoTree is not turing-complete but it is co-designed with the capabilities of the Ergo blockchain platform itself, making the whole system turing-complete as demonstrated in ([CKM18](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.10116)). Simplicity of the language enables spam-resistantance.
2. Forth, **simplicity and expressivity are often the characteristics of domain-specific languages** ([Fow10](https://books.google.de/books?hl=en&lr=&id=ri1muolw_YwC&oi=fnd&pg=PT29&dq=Martin+Fowler.+Domain-Specific+Languages.+01+2010.&ots=7Y9bdX4mdj&sig=UGF-xHd6q5xpdnxjEuVshpuPiNo&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=Martin%20Fowler.%20Domain-Specific%20Languages.%2001%202010.&f=false), [Hud96](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/242224.242477)). From this perspective ErgoTree is an intermediate representation of a DSL for writing smart contracts. The language directly captures the ubiquitous language ([Ubi](https://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/UbiquitousLanguage.html)) of the Ergo blockchain directly manipulating with Boxes, Tokens, Zero-Knowledge Sigma-Propostions etc.

These are the novel first-class features of Ergo platform which it provides for user applicatons.

- It has complementary frontend language called ErgoScript whose syntax is inspired by Scala/Kotlin and also shares a common subset with Java and C#, thus if you are proficient in any of these languages you will be right at home using ErgoScript as well.
- ErgoScript aims to address the large audience of programmers with minimum surprise and WTF ratio (See [WTF](https://www.itworld.com/article/2833252/the-most-wtf-y-programming-languages.html)).
- And last, but not least, ErgoTree as a core language of Ergo platform, should be optimized for compact storage and fast execution.

We implemented a reference implementation of ErgoTree according to the specification described in this document and provide a guidance in section 6 for development of an alternative and compliant protocol implementation. We don’t describe ErgoScript is this document and focus exclusively on ErgoTree