# Hodlcoin

Holdcoin was a concept thought up by one of the designers of Djed (SigmaUSD). The game has simple rules: players can HODL their ERGs by depositing them into a common reserve or un-HODL by burning their HODL ERGs to withdraw ERGs from the reserve. When HODLing, there are no fees, but un-HODLing incurs a penalty fee (e.g., 3% or 10%) that remains in the common reserve. Players who continue to HODL benefit from the fees paid by un-HODLing players, creating an incentive to hold for longer.

> Yes. It dates back to 2020, actually. :-). I was trying to simplify the design of Djed/SigmaUSD, to try to come up with a stablecoin protocol that would need no reservecoin and no oracle. 😄 And then I ended up with hodlCoin. But I dismissed it back then as something crazy (which it is, if your goal is to create a stablecoin, since hodlERG's price only increases :-D)... 🙂 Then, in summer/autumn of 2022, I shared this idea with @kushti_ru and, in Spring of 2023, he convinced me that this would be an interesting DegenFi product. The collaboration with @pulsarzz started then and I am still amazed by how fast it all went from there. Ergo's capacity for innovation is incredible.

Unfortunately in the haste and secrecy, a vulnerability was introduced that allowed the bank box to be drained. Superstar of the month, Krasavice Blasen, the developer behind Duckpools and SkyHarbor [spotted this mistake](https://twitter.com/duckpools_io/status/1675786620904292352) and quickly drained the funds to prevent a malicious actor from doing so. A more detailed technical description of the flaw is described in [this Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/ergonauts/comments/14plqu9/hodlcoin_update/). The funds are now being returned to the users and a v2 of Hodlcoin is underway with PhoenixErgo. This is being worked on by known community developers MGpai and lgd who are redoing the contract and using a proxy contract to further improve security.
Reiterating the importance of [knowing your assumptions](kya.md). There are no guarantees in experimental decentralised finance. Time is always the best measure of a protocols reliability. Manage your risks and trade well. 